# ML-project

## Listening to the Progression of Parkinson’s Disease

Analysis of codified recorded audio data generated by subjects diagnosed with Parkinson’s Disease can be useful in assessing the progression and severity of their Parkinson’s diagnosis. In this paper, we first explored the relevant audio data by comparing various untuned initial models of the data with the target identified as the motor UPDRS (Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale) score. Initial models included multiple variate linear regression, polynomial regression, decision tree regressor, random forest, and gradient booster. The most accurate of the models in their untuned form was the random forest model. After initial exploration, the available features were analyzed for enhanced feature elimination performance via backward elimination. PCA and KPCA were utilized in assessing the viability of feature extraction as a possible step in our final model; neither method was deemed viable to include in the final model as the mean squared error results were less predictive than the results without this step included. At this point in time the relevant hyperparameters in the remaining models were tuned to maximize performance.  Based on the process thus far, only the random forest regressor model and gradient booster model were included in an ensemble construction. K-fold cross validation was applied to return a final result on the final models resulting in successful predictions of the random forest model, gradient booster model, and the combined ensemble model with corresponding results of 0.97, 0.97, 0.98
